= Timeline of Kalevala and Esoteria =

1   -- Kalevala is founded by an unknown group of settlers, most likely humans, elves, and halflings.
       Although there are mentions of the "motherland", no location has been given.

3   -- The city begins to expand, and is considered self-sufficient.
       A man named Golvar Turi becomes the mayor of Kalevala.

7   -- Last known record of the "motherland".

19  -- Earliest known records of all other races, including dwarves, gnomes, and dragonborn.
       They seem to have come from elsewhere in the world, but there is no reference to where.

25  -- Many Kalevalians are killed by a plague. This is blamed on the new settlers, specifically on the gnomish population.

27  -- Kalevala reaches a population of 5,000.
       Golvar Turi orders the execution of nearly 300 gnomes who were suspected of starting the plague.

35  -- Kalevala's population surpasses 10,000.

42  -- Earthquake strikes, heavily hurting much of the city. Among the fatalities is Golvar Turi.
       His grandson, [[Connor Turi]], assumes his place.

49  -- The Kalevalian harbor is built, despite the fact that there is nowhere to go via boat.

60  -- Kalevala has finally fully recovered from the Earthquake.

61  -- Population of Kalevala reaches 20,000.

64  -- In a surprisingly progressive statement, [[Connor Turi]] condemns the actions of his grandfather.
       He begins to integrate gnomes back into society, and much of the racial tensions in Kalevala are relieved.

71  -- [[Connor Turi]] is assassinated by an unknown person. His nephew Gildas Turi becomes the new mayor.

75-148 -- Over the next 73 years, Kalevala continues healthily expanding, with the Turi family keeping a stable rule.
          The population reaches 50,000 by 105, and 100,000 by 142.

148 -- Once again, another earthquake and a subsequent tsunami devastates Kalevala.

153 -- Kalevala rebuilds, this time with large walls and stabler housing.

160 -- The sudden death of Vilden Turi ends the Turi rule, as there are no remaining heirs.

161 -- Despite the benevolence of the Turi family, the citizens implement a council to rule Kalevala.
       There are eight members of the council, each representing a major section of Kalevala.
       A ninth member is randomly selected each year to act as a tie-breaker.

172 -- The population of Kalevala stabilizes at about 130,000 people.

201 -- The [[First Expedition]] begins, in which about 100 people begin to explore the rest of Esoteria.
       However, another earthquake arrives 2 days later, killing 7 of them, and sending the rest back to tend to their families.

202 -- The first set of fortified walls of Kalevala are built, in order to withstand the strong earthquakes.

202-227 -- Once again, Kalevala continues to prosper for a long period of time. The council is expanded to 17 members (two for each section).
           The population is about 170,000 by 219.

227 -- In order to "revitalize Kalevala", a dragonborn named [[Valerian Ghesh]] incites a military coup.

228 -- During the coup, the supporters of Valerian (known as redeemers) somehow tear a hole in the Material Plane.
       Copious amounts of aether from the Astral Sea augment the plane, amplifying the effects of magic greatly in the world.
       This event becomes known as the [[Astral Leak]].

       Interestingly enough, [[The quake of 228|Kalevala's biggest earthquake]] at the time hits a day after,
       causing ruin in much of the city, as well as suspicions that these frequent earthquakes are something more...

228-253 -- Kalevalians diligently begin to rebuild under [[Valerian Ghesh]], who used the earthquake to solidify his power.
           Valerian's rule is heavily oppressive, but also quite productive.

237 -- The current set of extremely fortified walls is set up by Ghesh's military.
       This is the largest feat of Kalevalian engineering to this day.

241 -- An attempted rebellion is squashed by Valerian by killing about 2,500 dissenters.

253 -- After 25 years of recovery, Kalevala surpasses the population it had before
       Valerian's revolution and the [[The quake of 228|subsequent earthquake]].

254 -- [[Valerian Ghesh]] dies of natural causes, leaving a power vacuum for until April of the next year.

255 -- After a few months of turmoil, the son of former a Kalevalian council member, Ivellios Therai, reinstates the old government.

258 -- The council expands to 25 members.

260 -- Another earthquake near the scale of the 228 earthquake hits. The city walls manage to hold, and Kalevala recovers in 1 year.

262 -- A wizard named [[Zephan Kryos]] publishes research on the [[Astral Leak]].
       It states that the Astral Sea's leaks has not only strengthened all magic, but allows anyone to learn it.
       Before the leak, only a small amount of people could use magic, usually by making pacts with higher beings.

       Zephan founds a wizard's school later that year.

263 -- Kalevalians begin to learn how to draw from many sources of magical energy.
       Druids, Paladins, Bards, Clerics, Rangers, and Wizards spring into existance.

271 -- The teachings of [[Zephan Kryos]] have caused about 35% of Kalevalians to be able to use magic to a degree.
       Kalevala reachs a population of 300,000.

272 -- After a minor earthquake, the city of Kalevala is magically fortified as well, using Zephan's teachings.

274 -- The council of Kalevala begins to crumble from disagreement. Many citizens are annoyed with their indecisiveness.
       Sansha Alokei, a powerful sorcerer, decides to take matters into his own hands, using his unmatched power to force
       the council to release control of the city.

274-285 -- Sansha Alokei rules for 11 years, in which nearly 25,000 people are executed for treason.

285 -- Alokei dies, and the citizens of Kalevala attempt to reinstate the council.
       They make heavy modifications: the council will consist solely of 8 advisors for each branch of the government.
       Ties will be broken by the votes of citizens.

286 -- A ranger begins to map around Kalevala, hoping to mark up all of Esoteria. He unfortunately dies from a disease while out there.
       About 5 months later, a small search party finds his unfinished map, the most detailed yet.

288 -- Kalevala surpasses 400,000 inhabitants.

290 -- A major earthquake hits, proving the strength of the magical fortifications around Kalevala.
       However, farms outside the city are devastated by a tsunami, causing a famine.

290-301 -- Kalevala's population shrinks from 410,000 to 370,000 due to the famine.

301 -- Discoveries in magical irrigation techniques ends the famine.

307 -- Kalevala is attacked by multiple fire giants, causing city-wide havoc.
       However, the swift actions of military leader [[Cagali Aramor]] lead to a surprisingly few number of fatalities.
       Unfortunately, [[Cagali Aramor]] was gravely wounded in the battle, and died 3 days after.

308 -- A statue is erected of [[Cagali Aramor]] in the central plaza of Kalevala, along with [[Connor Turi]] and [[Valerian Ghesh]].
       These three people are the most famous Kalevalian heros.

308-325 -- Kalevala continues to expand, creating small neighborhoods outside of the walls. The population gets to 450,000 in 324.

325 -- A powerful earthquake destroys the neighborhoods outside the walls. Many Kalevalians begin to fear everything beyond the city.

333 -- [[Khennes Mael]], an extremely notorious criminal, founds a theives guild known as the Nighthawks.
       6 months later, they somehow have the entire city in their pocket, and Khennes is the practically the secret ruler of Kalevala.

337 -- A city guard named [[Raymond Kado]] begins to uncover the conspiracy in the government.
       Over the course of 3 months, [[Raymond Kado|Raymond]] almost single-handedly arrests
       and jails every major Nighthawk and other corrupt official in Kalevala.

346 -- [[Khennes Mael]] escapes from prison, and begins rebuilding the Nighthawks.

351 -- Once more, an earthquake hits. However, the city is well prepared at this point, and rebuilds extremely quickly.

357 -- An unknown traveller reaches Kalevala, claiming the existance of civilization far beyond Kalevala.
       More expeditions are sent far into Esoteria, in order to uncover what lies beyond.

